README.md, before:

# vaquero-docs

[![Build Status](https://drone.projectshipped.io/api/badges/CiscoCloud/vaquero-docs/status.svg)](https://drone.projectshipped.io/CiscoCloud/vaquero-docs)

Documentation for the Vaquero project: [https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vaquero](https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vaquero)

Website: [https://ciscocloud.github.io/vaquero-docs](https://ciscocloud.github.io/vaquero-docs)


### How to modify the documentation
All docs and static assets like images are in the gh-pages branch, under `docs`.
The latest version of the docs are under `current`. If you make any changes to any of the docs
in `current`, please follow these steps to generate a new version tag so that the site stays updated:

First, make sure you have ruby installed in your computer.

1. Save all changes in .md and make sure all images are in the `current` directory.
2. `git add .`
3. Create a new tag: `git tag -a 1.01 -m "updated the architecture doc"`. Check the docs site to see what version tag makes the most sense.
4. Commit changes. This will run a script that uses a ruby markdown converter to get all the files into .html. It will also snapshot `current` into a folder matching your version tag, and push everything to the gh-pages branch. The website will update on its own.

Commit message:

Updates to README to reflect new behaviors (#11)

README.md, after:

# vaquero-docs

[![Build Status](https://drone.projectshipped.io/api/badges/CiscoCloud/vaquero-docs/status.svg)](https://drone.projectshipped.io/CiscoCloud/vaquero-docs)

Documentation for the Vaquero project: [https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vaquero](https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vaquero)

Website: [https://ciscocloud.github.io/vaquero-docs](https://ciscocloud.github.io/vaquero-docs)


## How to modify the documentation

Updates to this repo automatically generate new documentation which will be published as static assets to using the GitHub Pages functionality.  The documentation will be published according to these rules:

* Changes to the `master` branch are published into the `current` version of the documentation.

  https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vaquero-docs/tree/gh-pages/docs/current

* When the documentation is tagged, a new version of the documents will be published using the version indicated in the tag.

  See: https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vaquero-docs/tree/gh-pages/docs

* Individual branches will be published, as well.
 
  https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vaquero-docs/tree/gh-pages/docs/branches
